>> Mike North: Type parameters
can also have constraints.
So, as you'll start using type parameters,
you'll
see that if you don't have a constraint
like this, this is the constraint part.
This is saying T must extend,
must be assignable to, this type here.
The best way I can explain
constraints to you is to remove this
to reveal the motivation for adding it.
And there you go.
So, we're getting a type
error because we're trying
to transform an array of type
T to a dictionary of type T.
And we begin by creating an empty
dictionary, we iterate over the array,
we try to place each value into
the dictionary, but it turns out we can't
access this property ID off
of each member of our array.
And the reason is we have
not declared that there is
a minimum requirement that T must meet,
and as a result,
there's very little that we can do with
values of type T inside the function.
It's really flexible in terms of what
can be passed into the function, but
you can only do the things that
you've explicitly asked for.
If we need to access ID,
we must state that T must be an object and
it must have a property called ID,
and this is how we would do it.
We accept a type T, that is at least
an object with a property
ID whose value is a string.
And now, this would be a string.
So, this is the equivalent of
doing something like this,
that we could try to remove this and
just say,
I'm taking an array,
>> Mike North: Of
objects that look like this.
And we could try to change this.
>> Mike North: Right, instead of T there,
we can replace the T here.
We're gonna run into another problem.
So, I've basically boiled this
down to my minimum requirements.
I've said transform this
array to a dictionary, but
there's no type parameter any more.
Here's the problem we'll run into.
Number one, we're getting errors for
passing in any properties
that are more than simply having
an ID who's value is a string.
The other problem we'll get is,
>> Mike North: When we try to access
things off of it, we've greatly
simplified this type in a bad way, right?
We've lost any of this extra
stuff that was passed in.
What we want is to be able to pass in
anything that has an ID that's a string,
and to get out a rearrangement of
this from an array to a dictionary.
But we haven't lost any
fidelity in the types,
we still have access to
everything we put in.
And that's where we're gonna say,
all right whatever you give me
an array of type T, I'm gonna give you
a dictionary of type T out, right?
You'll still be working
with whatever you pass in,
you'll still get it back
in dictionary form.
I'm not gonna reduce it down
to just objects that have ID,
you'll have it as you gave it to me.
And then the type constraint,
we already went over.
This is the equivalent of saying, look,
I'm not just gonna take, it's a way of
stating your requirements for working
with this type within the function.
>> Mike North: And
why isn't everything happy?
I forgot one last thing.
Now we're good.
>> Mike North: So just to recap,
by making this abstract, by adding
this idea of a generic,
>> Mike North: We
can,
>> Mike North: Retain the detail of
the object we passed in even though
this function that was doing the work,
it knows nothing about these extra
properties that might be there.
But because it's given us a blank that we
can fill in, from the outside we can say,
for the purposes of invoking
this function right now,
I'm giving you huge objects with
lots of properties in an ID, and
you'll get those same types back, you
won't have to deal with sort of the lowest
common denominator, cuz that puts you
in a position where you sort of have
to like figure out a way to widen your
types again to make this more useful.
>> Mike North: Like function arguments,
type parameters
are associated with a scope.
So here we have a function that returns
a function, start tuple, finish tuple,
right?
And we're using a technique that
Kyle Simpson in his Frontend Masters
course on functional light programming.
He calls this zero point programming
because we're returning a function and
then invoking the function
that it returns immediately.
So we pass in one argument,
an array of strings,
a second argument, a number, and
the type of the tuple we get out is this.
So just like A and B, right?
The values,
those are regular function parameters,
in here we can access both A and B.
And because of this analogy where
generics are like functions,
we can also access U and T.
Now out here on line 94,
could we access B?
>> Mike North: No, and
we can't access U either,
they are associated with
scopes in the same way.
And this fits similarly to having
a type parameter on a class and
then on a method within that class, right?
Outer and inner scope.
You could have a class, a method within
the class, a function that that returns,
it works just as you'd expect cuz I've
found this to be a very effective analogy.